# Ontology-Document-Similarity

## Title:

Document similarity of articles in the bio-medical domain using
multilabel-classification and ontology embeddings.

## Description:

Assigning categories to scholarly articles is a common approach to
help researchers navigate the continuously growing scientific
literature. This is a task well-covered in biomedical literature
thanks to efforts assigning Medical Subject Headings and other
ontologies to the biomedical abstracts, particularly from Medline. A
multilabel-classification approach to assign topics to biomedical
literature was developed, and its sources and results can be found in
the comments.
 
As an extension of the previous project, I want to explore a new
approach to compare articles using the structure that the ontologies,
with which these articles are annotated, provide. Inspired by the mOWL
library (https://github.com/bio-ontology-research-group/mowl), I'll
explore ontology embedding approaches, to determine how similar are
two groups of classes of the STY ontology
(https://bioportal.bioontology.org/ontologies/STY). These groups
represent the labels that are used to classify an article, and the
quantification of the similarity between groups will provide a metric
to assess the relationships between articles.
 
If this idea proves to be feasible, a new approach and more efficient
approach to recommend documents in the bio-medical domain will be
created, and enable a new way to navigate the bio-medical scientific
literature.

## Theme:

machine learning and AI methods

## Team leader:

 * Name: Nelson David Qui√±ones Virgen
 * Contact: nelsonquinones@outlook.com
